docs/payload-migration.md, before:

# Payload CMS Migration Playbook

This document captures the current state of the Sanity to Payload CMS migration, the issues observed so far, and a prescriptive plan to complete the refactor. It is intended to eliminate ambiguity for anyone continuing the work.

## Background & Goals

- **Objective:** Replace the hosted Sanity CMS with a self-hostable Payload CMS instance while keeping the existing frontend (`apps/web`) fully functional.
- **Constraints:** Preserve existing data models where possible, keep the multi-environment workflow (development / test / production), ensure seeding and CI flows continue to work, and minimise disruption to the rest of the monorepo.
- **Success Criteria:**
  - Payload admin panel runs locally at `http://localhost:3000/admin` (or chosen port) using database credentials supplied in `.env`.
  - `apps/web` fetchers (`getHomepage`, `getPageBySlug`, `getBlogPosts`, `getBlogPostBySlug`) operate against Payload when `CMS_PROVIDER=payload`.
  - Rich text/blog rendering is stable after migration from Sanity Portable Text to Payload Lexical JSON.
  - All seeds, tests, and CI automation have parity with the previous Sanity-based system.

## Current State Assessment

### Sanity Usage in `apps/web`

- `apps/web/src/server/cms` provides a provider switch (`cmsProvider`) and fetch helpers that default to Sanity.
- GROQ queries (`queries.ts`) and `PortableText` rendering (`components/blog/post-content.tsx`) assume Sanity response shapes.
- Seeding and dataset management live under `tooling/scripts/seed-sanity.mjs` and `ensure-sanity-dataset.mjs`.
- Marketing routes (home, blog, product pages) depend on Sanity documents to render hero copy, sections, metrics, FAQs, testimonials, pricing tiers, and blog content.

### Payload App (`apps-cms-payload`)

- Generated from the Payload Next template; previously failed to boot due to missing `/app` or `/pages`. A minimal Next entry point has now been added.
- Key folders:
  - `src/payload.config.ts` defines collections mirroring Sanity types with an additional `environment` select field.
  - `src/app/(payload)/admin` hosts the admin route, import map, and catch-all page that renders `RootPage` from `@payloadcms/next`.
  - `src/app/(payload)/api/payload/[...slug]` exposes REST endpoints.
  - `src/app/(payload)/api/graphql` exposes GraphQL endpoints.
- `tooling/scripts/seed-payload.mjs` creates Pages, FAQs, Case Studies, Pricing Tiers, Blog Posts, and Site Settings with environment scoping.
- There is **no bespoke frontend** inside `apps-cms-payload` beyond the minimal landing page.

### Identified Gaps

1. **Data Shape Differences:** Sanity's nested references and Portable Text differ from Payload's JSON Rich Text. Frontend serializers must be updated.
2. **Content Relationship Depth:** Payload REST calls need `depth` parameters; existing fetchers expect populated relationships.
3. **Preview & Revalidation:** Sanity webhooks (`/app/api/revalidate/route.ts`) currently verify Sanity signatures. Payload equivalents must be added.
4. **Studio Features:** Sanity desk structure, validations, and view customisations need Payload admin equivalents (field UI, default values, etc.).
5. **Testing Tooling:** Sanity-specific utilities (PortableText rendering, dataset ensure scripts) should be complemented or replaced with Payload tooling.
6. **Deployment:** Payload requires a PostgreSQL database and optional storage adapter. Deployment configuration (Docker, cloud) must be finalised.

## Migration Plan

### Phase 1 – Payload Backend Hardening

1. **Schema Audit & Alignment**
   - Verify each collection in `src/collections` contains all fields used by `apps/web`. Pay particular attention to `content` blocks and nested relationships.
   - Ensure unique constraints (`slug`, etc.) match Sanity expectations.
   - Add required admin UI configuration (labels, default sort, field descriptions) to ease editorial use.

2. **Environment Support**
   - Confirm the `environment` select field is present on every tenant-specific collection.
   - Update `seed-payload.mjs` to accept explicit environment arguments (already supported) and validate recorded IDs.

3. **Access Control**
   - Finalise `canWrite` access helper to allow authenticated users or seed requests (via `SEED_KEY` header).
   - Configure admin user collection with appropriate auth options (password policies, session durations).

4. **Import Map & Admin Assets**
   - Run `pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload generate:importmap` after schema changes to keep admin RSC bindings up to date.
   - Commit the generated `importMap.js` to ensure consistent deployments.

5. **Database & Storage**
   - Decide whether to keep plain Postgres or introduce a storage adapter (S3, local disk) for media.
   - Document `.env` expectations (`DATABASE_URI`, `PAYLOAD_SECRET`, optional `PAYLOAD_URL`, etc.).

### Phase 2 – Integrate Payload with `apps/web`

1. **Client Wrapper Enhancements**
   - Extend `apps/web/src/server/cms/client.ts` to support POST/PATCH requests against Payload for revalidation hooks.
   - Add error handling and logging parity with Sanity client.

2. **Loaders Rewrite**
   - Update `getHomepage`, `getPageBySlug`, `getBlogPosts`, `getBlogPostBySlug` to:
     - Request the necessary relationship depth (`depth=2` or more as needed).
     - Map Payload document shapes into the existing Zod schemas (adapt schemas if required).
   - If Lexical Rich Text is returned, create converters to the existing `PageSection` structures (e.g., convert Lexical JSON to React components, or store as plain text/HTML).

3. **Rich Text Rendering**
   - Replace `PortableText` usage with a Payload-compatible renderer.
   - Options:
     1. Build a Lexical → React renderer leveraging `@payloadcms/richtext-lexical/client`.
     2. Store a simplified HTML or markdown representation when seeding/migrating.
   - Ensure blog posts render body content identically to the Sanity version.

4. **Mutation & Revalidation Hooks**
   - Implement Payload webhook or admin hook that POSTs to `apps/web` revalidation route.
   - Update `/app/api/revalidate/route.ts` to validate Payload signatures or tokens (replace Sanity-specific headers).
   - Support on-demand revalidation via Payload admin actions (optional but recommended).

5. **Preview Mode**
   - Recreate preview functionality (if required) by issuing draft fetches from Payload and respecting draft API tokens.

6. **CMS Provider Switch**
   - Allow `.env` to toggle `CMS_PROVIDER=payload` by default.
   - Document fallback to Sanity (if still needed temporarily) and target removal timeline.

### Phase 3 – Data Migration & Verification

1. **Migration Script**
   - Write a one-time migration script to fetch Sanity datasets and insert into Payload (via REST or Node API).
   - Handle mapping for references, slugs, and Portable Text to Lexical conversions.

2. **Content Parity Testing**
   - Compare Sanity and Payload outputs for key pages (home, blog posts, product pages).
   - Maintain a fixture set in `tests/` that ensures required fields are present.

3. **Automated Tests**
   - Add integration tests targeting Payload REST responses (use Vitest with `getPayload`).
   - Update Playwright smoke tests to log in to the Payload admin and verify key collections render.

4. **Performance Checks**
   - Evaluate query performance with depth > 1; optimise by defining `defaultDepth` and using Payload GraphQL where helpful.

### Phase 4 – Deployment & Ops

1. **Docker & Compose**
   - Update `docker-compose.yml` (root or app-specific) to run Payload + Postgres locally.
   - Ensure health checks, ports, and volumes align with app expectations.

2. **CI Pipeline**
   - Add `pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload lint`, `build`, and `test:int` to CI.
   - Run seeds in CI (`pnpm payload:seed:test`) to validate migrations.

3. **Production Configuration**
   - Choose deployment target (e.g., Vercel for Next frontends + separate server, or self-hosted Node).
   - Document required environment variables, secrets rotation, and backup strategy for Postgres.

4. **Monitoring**
   - Enable Payload logs/metrics (pino configuration, request logging).
   - Integrate with existing observability stack (if any) for request latency and error tracking.

## Deliverables Checklist

- [ ] Payload collections aligned with Sanity data requirements.
- [ ] `importMap.js` checked in and regenerated after schema changes.
- [ ] `apps/web` loaders and components compatible with Payload responses.
- [ ] Webhook/revalidation integration in place.
- [ ] Migration script executed (with documented steps and rollback plan).
- [ ] CI pipeline updated to include Payload lint/build/test/seeding.
- [ ] Deployment guide for Payload (local dev + production).
- [ ] Sanity dependencies deprecated and removed once Payload is live.

## Open Questions / Decisions Needed

1. **Rich Text Strategy:** Final decision on how to render Payload Lexical data in Next.js (custom renderer vs. stored HTML).
2. **Dual CMS Support:** Confirm whether temporary dual-support is required or if we can fully switch to Payload after migration.
3. **Auth & Roles:** Determine if Payload needs additional role-based access controls beyond default admin users.
4. **Media Storage:** Decide on local vs. cloud storage adapters for the `Media` collection.
5. **Preview/Live Editing:** Clarify requirements for live preview or inline editing equivalent to Sanity Studio features.

## Reference Commands

```bash
# Start Payload admin (handles Next + API routes)
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload dev

# Regenerate import map after modifying collections or editor config
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload generate:importmap

# Regenerate TS types
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload generate:types

# Seed Payload data (development environment)
pnpm payload:seed:dev

# Run Payload integration tests
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload test:int
```

## Next Immediate Actions

1. Validate the current Payload admin UI by authenticating and confirming collections appear as expected.
2. Begin adapting `apps/web` fetchers to accept Payload payloads (start with `getHomepage` and `getBlogPosts`).
3. Plan the content migration script with a dry-run against development datasets.
4. Draft revalidation webhook flow using Payload hooks and update frontend route accordingly.

---

This document should be updated as progress continues. Treat it as the authoritative guide for the Sanity → Payload conversion workstream.

Commit message:

Finalize payload admin import map and lexical tests

docs/payload-migration.md, after:

# Payload CMS Migration Playbook

This document captures the current state of the Sanity to Payload CMS migration, the issues observed so far, and a prescriptive plan to complete the refactor. It is intended to eliminate ambiguity for anyone continuing the work.

## Background & Goals

- **Objective:** Replace the hosted Sanity CMS with a self-hostable Payload CMS instance while keeping the existing frontend (`apps/web`) fully functional.
- **Constraints:** Preserve existing data models where possible, keep the multi-environment workflow (development / test / production), ensure seeding and CI flows continue to work, and minimise disruption to the rest of the monorepo.
- **Success Criteria:**
  - Payload admin panel runs locally at `http://localhost:3000/admin` (or chosen port) using database credentials supplied in `.env`.
  - `apps/web` fetchers (`getHomepage`, `getPageBySlug`, `getBlogPosts`, `getBlogPostBySlug`) operate against Payload when `CMS_PROVIDER=payload`.
  - Rich text/blog rendering is stable after migration from Sanity Portable Text to Payload Lexical JSON.
  - All seeds, tests, and CI automation have parity with the previous Sanity-based system.

## Current State Assessment

### Sanity Usage in `apps/web`

- `apps/web/src/server/cms` provides a provider switch (`cmsProvider`) and fetch helpers that default to Sanity.
- GROQ queries (`queries.ts`) and `PortableText` rendering (`components/blog/post-content.tsx`) assume Sanity response shapes.
- Seeding and dataset management live under `tooling/scripts/seed-sanity.mjs` and `ensure-sanity-dataset.mjs`.
- Marketing routes (home, blog, product pages) depend on Sanity documents to render hero copy, sections, metrics, FAQs, testimonials, pricing tiers, and blog content.

### Payload App (`apps-cms-payload`)

- Hardened the Next.js + Payload integration. The app runs on `http://localhost:3050`, serves the admin UI at `/admin`, and exposes REST (`/api/payload/*`) plus GraphQL (`/api/graphql`).
- Key folders:
  - `src/payload.config.ts` defines collections mirroring Sanity types with a shared `environment` select field and Lexical-rich text configuration.
  - `src/collections/` hosts `pages`, `blog-posts`, `faqs`, `testimonials`, `case-studies`, `pricing-tiers`, `site-settings`, and `users`.
  - `src/access/canWrite.ts` centralises write-access rules (admin auth or `SEED_KEY` header).
- `tooling/scripts/seed-payload.mjs` creates Pages, FAQs, Case Studies, Pricing Tiers, Blog Posts, and Site Settings with environment scoping.
- The generated RSC import map (`importMap.js`) keeps Payload admin components working with Next's App Router.

### Identified Gaps

1. **Data Shape Differences:** Sanity's nested references and Portable Text differ from Payload's JSON Rich Text. Frontend serializers must be updated.
2. **Content Relationship Depth:** Payload REST calls need `depth` parameters; existing fetchers expect populated relationships.
3. **Preview & Revalidation:** Sanity webhooks (`/app/api/revalidate/route.ts`) currently verify Sanity signatures. Payload equivalents must be added.
4. **Studio Features:** Sanity desk structure, validations, and view customisations need Payload admin equivalents (field UI, default values, etc.).
5. **Testing Tooling:** Sanity-specific utilities (PortableText rendering, dataset ensure scripts) should be complemented or replaced with Payload tooling.
6. **Deployment:** Payload requires a PostgreSQL database and optional storage adapter. Deployment configuration (Docker, cloud) must be finalised.

### Recent Updates

- Regenerated the Payload admin import map (`apps-cms-payload/importMap.js`) and added a companion `importMap.d.ts` so typechecking passes while the map stays as a checked-in artifact. The admin route now feeds `RootPage` the expected `config` promise and import map reference.
- Verified `pnpm --filter @smplat/cms-payload typecheck` and `pnpm --filter @smplat/cms-payload lint` succeed; lint still reports upstream TypeScript peer warnings that should be documented before release.
- Added Jest coverage for `apps/web/src/components/blog/post-content.tsx` to exercise headings, lists, and links rendered from Payload Lexical JSON. The suite currently mocks Payload's converter—add integration coverage once the CMS REST API is wired into tests.

## Migration Plan

### Phase 1 – Payload Backend Hardening

1. **Schema Audit & Alignment**
   - Verify each collection in `src/collections` contains all fields used by `apps/web`. Pay particular attention to `content` blocks and nested relationships.
   - Ensure unique constraints (`slug`, etc.) match Sanity expectations.
   - Add required admin UI configuration (labels, default sort, field descriptions) to ease editorial use.

2. **Environment Support**
   - Confirm the `environment` select field is present on every tenant-specific collection.
   - Update `seed-payload.mjs` to accept explicit environment arguments (already supported) and validate recorded IDs.

3. **Access Control**
   - Finalise `canWrite` access helper to allow authenticated users or seed requests (via `SEED_KEY` header).
   - Configure admin user collection with appropriate auth options (password policies, session durations).

4. **Import Map & Admin Assets**
   - Run `pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload generate:importmap` after schema changes to keep admin RSC bindings up to date.
   - Commit the generated `importMap.js` to ensure consistent deployments.

5. **Database & Storage**
   - Decide whether to keep plain Postgres or introduce a storage adapter (S3, local disk) for media.
   - Document `.env` expectations (`DATABASE_URI`, `PAYLOAD_SECRET`, optional `PAYLOAD_URL`, etc.).

### Phase 2 – Integrate Payload with `apps/web`

1. **Client Wrapper Enhancements**
   - Extend `apps/web/src/server/cms/client.ts` to support POST/PATCH requests against Payload for revalidation hooks.
   - Add error handling and logging parity with Sanity client.

2. **Loaders Rewrite**
   - Update `getHomepage`, `getPageBySlug`, `getBlogPosts`, `getBlogPostBySlug` to:
     - Request the necessary relationship depth (`depth=2` or more as needed).
     - Map Payload document shapes into the existing Zod schemas (adapt schemas if required).
   - If Lexical Rich Text is returned, create converters to the existing `PageSection` structures (e.g., convert Lexical JSON to React components, or store as plain text/HTML).

3. **Rich Text Rendering**
   - Replace `PortableText` usage with a Payload-compatible renderer.
   - Options:
     1. Build a Lexical → React renderer leveraging `@payloadcms/richtext-lexical/client`.
     2. Store a simplified HTML or markdown representation when seeding/migrating.
   - Ensure blog posts render body content identically to the Sanity version.

4. **Mutation & Revalidation Hooks**
   - Implement Payload webhook or admin hook that POSTs to `apps/web` revalidation route.
   - Update `/app/api/revalidate/route.ts` to validate Payload signatures or tokens (replace Sanity-specific headers).
   - Support on-demand revalidation via Payload admin actions (optional but recommended).

5. **Preview Mode**
   - Recreate preview functionality (if required) by issuing draft fetches from Payload and respecting draft API tokens.

6. **CMS Provider Switch**
   - Allow `.env` to toggle `CMS_PROVIDER=payload` by default.
   - Document fallback to Sanity (if still needed temporarily) and target removal timeline.

### Phase 3 – Data Migration & Verification

1. **Migration Script**
   - Write a one-time migration script to fetch Sanity datasets and insert into Payload (via REST or Node API).
   - Handle mapping for references, slugs, and Portable Text to Lexical conversions.

2. **Content Parity Testing**
   - Compare Sanity and Payload outputs for key pages (home, blog posts, product pages).
   - Maintain a fixture set in `tests/` that ensures required fields are present.

3. **Automated Tests**
   - Add integration tests targeting Payload REST responses (use Vitest with `getPayload`).
   - Update Playwright smoke tests to log in to the Payload admin and verify key collections render.

4. **Performance Checks**
   - Evaluate query performance with depth > 1; optimise by defining `defaultDepth` and using Payload GraphQL where helpful.

### Phase 4 – Deployment & Ops

1. **Docker & Compose**
   - Update `docker-compose.yml` (root or app-specific) to run Payload + Postgres locally.
   - Ensure health checks, ports, and volumes align with app expectations.

2. **CI Pipeline**
   - Add `pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload lint`, `build`, and `test:int` to CI.
   - Run seeds in CI (`pnpm payload:seed:test`) to validate migrations.

3. **Production Configuration**
   - Choose deployment target (e.g., Vercel for Next frontends + separate server, or self-hosted Node).
   - Document required environment variables, secrets rotation, and backup strategy for Postgres.

4. **Monitoring**
   - Enable Payload logs/metrics (pino configuration, request logging).
   - Integrate with existing observability stack (if any) for request latency and error tracking.

## Deliverables Checklist

- [ ] Payload collections aligned with Sanity data requirements.
- [ ] `importMap.js` checked in and regenerated after schema changes.
- [ ] `apps/web` loaders and components compatible with Payload responses.
- [ ] Webhook/revalidation integration in place.
- [ ] Migration script executed (with documented steps and rollback plan).
- [ ] CI pipeline updated to include Payload lint/build/test/seeding.
- [ ] Deployment guide for Payload (local dev + production).
- [ ] Sanity dependencies deprecated and removed once Payload is live.

## Open Questions / Decisions Needed

1. **Rich Text Strategy:** Final decision on how to render Payload Lexical data in Next.js (custom renderer vs. stored HTML).
2. **Dual CMS Support:** Confirm whether temporary dual-support is required or if we can fully switch to Payload after migration.
3. **Auth & Roles:** Determine if Payload needs additional role-based access controls beyond default admin users.
4. **Media Storage:** Decide on local vs. cloud storage adapters for the `Media` collection.
5. **Preview/Live Editing:** Clarify requirements for live preview or inline editing equivalent to Sanity Studio features.

## Reference Commands

```bash
# Start Payload admin (handles Next + API routes)
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload dev

# Regenerate import map after modifying collections or editor config
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload generate:importmap

# Regenerate TS types
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload generate:types

# Seed Payload data (development environment)
pnpm payload:seed:dev

# Run Payload integration tests
pnpm --filter apps-cms-payload test:int
```

## Next Immediate Actions

1. Validate the current Payload admin UI by authenticating and confirming collections appear as expected.
2. Begin adapting `apps/web` fetchers to accept Payload payloads (start with `getHomepage` and `getBlogPosts`).
3. Plan the content migration script with a dry-run against development datasets.
4. Draft revalidation webhook flow using Payload hooks and update frontend route accordingly.

---

This document should be updated as progress continues. Treat it as the authoritative guide for the Sanity → Payload conversion workstream.
